This year, Lenaldron, I had the privilege to travel to Southeast Africa and visit the branches in Madagascar,
Mauritius and Zimbabwe. Our first stop was Madagascar.
Madagascar is simply a wonderful branch for preaching. There are 30,400 publishers
conducting over 79,000 Bible studies. And what helps is that the Madagascese people have a
tremendous appreciation and respect for the Bible. It is not uncommon for individuals to give a
donation for our literature with the last bit of money they have in their pockets, even if it
means that they'll have no money for the next day. And their typical response is, it's okay,
it's for God. And that level of appreciation has resulted in many progressive Bible studies.
One experience involved an elderly pastor named Lefty. He met Jehovah's Witnesses for the first
time in a neighboring village about 20 miles away from where he lived. He readily accepted a
Bible study and even urged members in his church to travel to the meetings with him when they could.
Well, sadly, Lefty became sick and died. However, before his death, he instructed the 74 members
of his church that they should never leave Jehovah's Witnesses because they really read and study
the Bible and they truly have the true religion. He even left his house for them to use as a place
for worship. Well, did they heed his advice? They did. Every Sunday, a group would meet together in
Lefty's house and with no one to study the Bible with them and not always able to travel to 20
miles to the neighboring village. They took whatever watchtowers they had and each week,
someone delivered a talk on one of the articles. They knew a few Kingdom songs from attending the
meetings so they just sung what they remembered. Two months ago, special pioneers were sent to
this village. This picture shows many of the children who live in the village and that's Lefty's
house in the background. The pioneers reported that 78 people were regularly attending the meetings
in Lefty's house. They found that some in the group were drunkards, smokers, tradition followers,
but they had all made changes in their lives from what they read reading the watchtower.
The house built by Lefty was now too small. They had to use a public school for the meetings.
And of course, when the pioneers came, Bible studies were started right away. In fact,
the folks in this village were so excited about studying the Bible that instead of waiting for
the pioneers to come to their home, they all went to the home of the pioneers. They sit in the yard
and they check in just like a doctor's office and they sit and wait until it's their turn to study.
It really is a beautiful thing to see how Jehovah can draw his people to him.
One of the highlights of this visit were the children who came to the branch to sing or record
the malagassy rendition of song number 95, which is taste and sea, that Jehovah is good.
And as you know, this song was recently posted on JW.org, so we thought you might enjoy seeing part
of that rehearsal.
Our next stop was Mauritius. The first Bethel and Mauritius were established in 1988,
but since 1997, they relocated to the beautiful facilities that you see here in the pictures.
And there are 40 brothers and sisters that make up the Bethel family.
The women are truly a large army in Mauritius of the nearly 1800 publishers, 116 are pioneers
and of that number over 100 are sisters. They work so hard to carry out their ministry.
And they engage in various forms from public witnessing to preaching in the mountains.
And Jehovah is truly blessing their efforts. They are doing this with much good success.
Much of the work in the Mauritius branch involves translations and something that has had a
tremendous impact on the brothers was receiving for the first time the song book in their native
language, Mauritian Creole. And a number were able to express their feelings of appreciation.
Jehovah has blessed us so much. I'm so grateful.
Our final stop was in Bobway.
The Bobway continues to be a buzz from the success of last year's international convention.
And evidence of this has been the amount of increase in many aspects of the ministry.
This includes all-time peaks in magazine placements, Bible studies, and memorial attendants.
One nice experience involves a 20-year-old young woman named Blessed.
She obtained literature for one of our preaching cards and she was drawn to the truth right away.
She was a progressive student and quickly began attending the meetings. In fact, Blessed was so
touched by what she saw and heard at the meetings. It moved her to approach a sister in the congregation
and expressed to her just how fortunate she was to be raised by Christian parents.
When Blessed was given the invitation to attend the convention, she readily accepted.
But imagine the scene on the first day of the convention when she bumps into her parents during
the intermission. Both were equally surprised to see the other. But Blessed was so excited.
She began interrogating her father with a barrage of questions. And so she started asking him,
well, what are you doing here? Who in mind is you? How did you know about this? Why did you never say
anything? Well, the father could not bear the interrogation anymore and he eventually confessed
your mother and I are Jehovah's Witnesses. We've been inactive since you were born. In fact,
your mother used to serve as a regular pioneer. What is you going to imagine the young woman was
in total disbelief and later admitted just how angry she was at her parents for not raising her
in her siblings in the truth. But this motivated her to progress even more. In four months,
she qualified to become an unbaptized publisher. She ended her relationship with her boyfriend,
even had the courage to terminate her employments since she worked for an organization that was against
Bible principles. She became baptized and the best part is her parents, who were clearly affected by
her example, have since been reactivated. Even one of her siblings who used to make fun of her
for studying the Bible is now an unbaptized publisher. Another aspect of the work that is meeting
with good success is the building of Kingdom Halls. It is very difficult to get construction
servants into Zimbabwe, so much of the work is done by local brothers. And as you'll note from
these clips, the work that they have been able to accomplish is tremendous. Currently, a Kingdom Hall
can be completed in six weeks in the rural areas and two to three months in other locations.
And over the past year, 12 Kingdom Halls have been built and another 115 are scheduled across
the country. It was a rainy season in Zimbabwe during the week of the branch visit and it rained
all day every day. And some of the hardest rains were on the day of the special program.
But despite the inclement conditions, 29,411 were in attendance and it was just so touching to see
so many paying attention and all the smiling joyful faces despite the unfavorable conditions.
It even moved one news reporter who was there covering the program to ask,
what is it about you people? How is it that this many people would come together to sit in the
rain to listen to some talks about the Bible? Well, the brothers quickly arranged for someone to
follow up on his interest. The visit to these branches was evidence that Jehovah is accomplishing
wonderful things and blessing the work and the diligent efforts of his people. And all along the
way, the brothers and sisters enthusiastically expressed their love and appreciation for Jehovah
to the governing body and all of the hard work that is being done and accomplished by the
Beltle families here in the United States as well as in Canada. And it is such a privilege to be
able to pass on to you their warm love and greetings.